# SES-230-Final

For the final project, we successfully managed to code a simulation of a baseball game between the Texas Rangers and the Arizona Diamondbacks. In our code, we took into account a variety of factors in order to make the final score of the game as realistic as possible. To do so, we included four main factors: the batter’s batting average, the probability of the batter striking out, the probability of the batter hitting the ball and a fielder getting him out, and the pitcher’s strike percentage. Implementing these probabilities into our code, we ultimately produced several classes(one for the player, pitcher, and team). We simulated each inning, implementing the probabilities into if, else, and elif statements so that each batter had a set probability for them to get a hit, striking out, or hitting the ball in play. 
	However, one of the issues we were facing within the code was to keep track of which runners were on base and implement the probability of each batter getting a double, triple, or home run. Due to time constraints, we could not successfully answer this question. Still, we both knew that in order to answer it, we would have to add the probability for each hit in the player class and alter the get_hit function to incorporate the outcome for each batter. Instead, we decided to come up with another question to answer: How to incorporate extra innings?
	With this question, we both knew that the probability of each team tying was fairly slim, however, we experienced this issue almost 10% of the time each time we ran it. In order to combat this issue, we added onto the simulate_game function so that the simulate_inning function would continue if both teams' final scores after 9 innings matched. To do so, we added an ‘or’ statement to the while loop so that the program took into account the initial 9 innings and each individual inning after that. This was a relatively simple fix since it was already added onto the inning counter without changing any of the initial code in our inning simulations and printed it out without any difficulty. Not only that, we also added a print statement so that if the game went into extra innings, the program would acknowledge that and print it out so the user could explicitly see why the inning count was above 9. 
